Let’s dive deep and check more details about each git command

Here is list of important git commands with examples:

git config
Usage: This command is used to set the author name and email address to be used with your commits. It sets username and email in main configuration file

Example of git config:

git config –global user.name “[name]”
git config –global user.email “[email address]”

 

git init
Usage: git init is used to initialize new git repository

Example of git init:

git init [repository name]

 

git clone
Usage: git clone is used to copy a repository from an existing remote URL. It also the remote to original source so that you can pull again.

Example of git clone:

git clone [url]

 

git status
Usage: git status check the status of files you have changed in your working directory which are not committed.

Example of git status:

git status

 

git add
Usage: git add adds a file to the staging area in your working directory.

Example of git add:

git add [file]

git add *

 

git commit
Usage: git add commits your changes in remote.

Example of git commit:

git commit -m “my sample commit message”

 

git diff
Usage: git diff shows the file differences which are not yet staged.

Example of git diff:

git diff:  git diff shows the file differences which are not yet staged.

git diff –staged: This command shows the differences between the files in the staging area and the latest version present.

 

git push
Usage: git push is used to send committed changes to remote repository repository.

Example of git push:

git push [variable name] [branch]: This command sends the branch commits to your remote repository.

git push –all [variable name]: This command pushes all branches to your remote repository.

 

git pull
Usage: git pull fetches changes from remote repository.

Example of git pull:

git pull [Repository Link]: This command fetches and merges changes on the remote server to your working directory.

 

git branch
Usage: git branch lists all the local branches in the current repository.

Example of git branch:

git branch: git branch lists all the local branches in the current repository.

git branch [branch name]: It creates a new branch.

git branch -d [branch name]: It deletes branch with branch name.

 

git checkout
Usage: git checkout is used to switch from one branch to another.

Example of git checkout:

git checkout [branch name]: This command is used to switch from one branch to another.

git checkout -b [branch name]:  This command creates a new branch and also switches to it.

 

git stash
Usage: git stash save changes that you don’t want to commit immediately.

Example of git stash:

git stash save:  save changes that you don’t want to commit immediately.

git stash pop: This command restores the most recently stashed files.
